This module managing complexity is getting
to know you kind of an intro module.
In that we are going to
talk at a high level,
how philosophically,
I approach application development.
And I'm gonna take everything that
I've learned in the last 20 years
of programming, I'd say in the last
seven or eight years of doing angular.
And I'm going to just distill
some heuristics or some rules of
thumbs that you can use right out of the
gates that will make you more effective.
And so if for some reason you took
the day off to watch this workshop, and
really what your intention was
to watch football or cat videos,
I would say if you manage to memorize
just this module right here,
and you can recite it back to the powers
that be, you're probably in a good spot.
So I believe that managing
complexity is the hardest
thing about developing software.
And simple thought exercise is that or
just acknowledgement of just
an intrinsic part of software
development is that when your
application grows in size,
that it grows in complexity and
typically not in a linear fashion.
And the reason being is that is
you increase in application size.
It increases the amount of
state that you have to manage.
Which then,
creates complexity around control flow and
most importantly, is that it increases
your burden for code volume.
So, complexity consists of managing of
state, flow control and code volume.
And so I pulled this from a paper out
of the tar pit, and you can google it.
It's a free PDF.
I'd probably read maybe the first 15 20
pages, but really within the first page or
two, the author's they cover or
they just touch on this topic.
And it just resonates with
me that every time I see
an application that has problems,
that it's because
there is complexity that's
not being managed and
this is typically around state management.
As a result of failing to manage state,
then your flow control gets super wonky.
And then your code volume expands as you
have to introduce kind of more state
to manage state.
Is your states moving around your
application was increased more
code volume.
And so you can see now how is your
application grows in complexity,
that it's not a linear progression
is that it's actually more of
like an exponential progression.
And so, here are some general rules for
managing complexity.
First and foremost,
there is no silver bullet.
There's no language.
There's no framework that does everything.
Oftentimes, you have to
make concessions for
the strength of a particular technology.
And except the weaknesses
that come from it.
So for instance, if you're working
with a very dynamic language
that is not typed well, you're able
to do a lot of things at runtime.
A lot of dynamic programming but
you lose the sharpness of having
a strongly typed language.
On the other hand, you have a very
strongly typed classical language and
the cost of doing dynamic
functional things at runtime.
And so, I just at the onset, is that in
the beginning of my programming journey,
I figured that there has to
be just this super framework,
that just does everything.
I believe people have tried to do it, and
it just never works because
ultimately you have a framework that
tries to do everything and
you just get handcuffed to that way.
And so here is a statement by
Kent Beck that I really like,
and it's make it work,
make it right, make it fast.
And so you can see this narrative
arc in baked into this workshop,
is that the first thing we wanna do
is when we're building something,
we just want to make it work.
And from there, then we can make it right.
And then ultimately, as we move closer
to production, we want to make it fast.
Now the reason why I say this,
is I made an amendment to this.
And that it's make it work, make it known,
make it right, make it fast.
Now the reason why you wanna make it work
is because you want to make it known.
You want to give your users the ability
to give you feedback as soon as possible.
And from there, once you converge on a set
of features that your users are telling
you that they want, you've made it known,
then you make it right.
And so I'm not saying just completely
disregard any programming principles
that you know to be true, but at
the same time I think it's important not
to over engineer a solution until
you know what you're building.
I've even met programmers that say,
you shouldn't even be programming if
you're not doing test driven development.
Well, I completely agree.
The difference is when I talk
about test driven development,
that I'm not talking
about just unit tests.
Until you know what you're building, it
just doesn't make sense to invest a ton of
money or resources into building something
that your users may not even want.
And so I believe at the onset,
start with user testing,
and then move into automated testing.
So with that said,
here are some principles that I adhere to.
That I believe will help
you write much better code.
This isn't even angular specific.
First and foremost, code should be fine
grained meaning code should do one thing.
So if you're writing a function,
that function should do one thing.
And so anytime you describe a function or
a unit of code, you say it does this end.
The minute you hit that end then you've
broken the single responsibility
principle, and
you should think about refactoring that.
Code should be self documenting.
When you write code that when you read
the variables or the function name, and
you know exactly what it does,
then you don't need to document your code.
So get all widgets,
have a pretty good idea what that does.
Favor pure, immutable functions.
And this is quite simply that when
you have pure immutable functions,
it reduces your footprint to manage
state across your application.
Now, we're going to talk a lot
about this when we get into Nx,
which are abstractions
should reduce complexity.
Meaning that if you have
a monolithic component or
a service that's doing
a lot of different things,
what you've done is you've
coupled everything together.
And you really do not have a true
abstraction within that unit of code.
And so abstraction just for the record
is really about managing complexity.
And so if you look it up
in the dictionary, online,
it's really abstraction
is managing complexity.
It's moving things in a way
to reduce complexity.
And how does that work?
Well, you reduce coupling.
And so if you have a large monolithic
service that is using, let's say,
six other services, and, you need to
change something in one of those services,
then it's possible it could affect,
any of the other services.
And so when you couple things together,
it makes it very hard,
to make changes within your code base
without, breaking something else.
And so a lot of times you'll see this
in the form of I have a component in
another component and I want to move it.
The problem is that this other component
has a dependency on the parent component.
At the same time,
obstructions should increase cohesion.
In other words, you want to group
your code together in such a way
that it makes it easier to
navigate that particular group in.
And so, the way that I think about
this cuz there are already a number of
different levels of cohesion or types
of cohesion, is that I'm talking about
functional cohesion, is that you
group code together by its function.
And so,
I think of this in terms of a dresser.
That there's a reason why you put
your pants in your pants drawer,
you put your shirt in
your shirt drawer and
so on is that you're organizing
things kind of by function.
So that's one way to do it.
Another way you could
do it I've seen is that
since the night before
if I lay my outfit out.
Then I group it together
based on what I'm wearing.
And so in terms of the implementation.
And so
there's different forms of cohesion and
it's sometimes a little
bit more art than science.
But when you're writing code,
you should ask yourself,
does this logically fit within this
grouping that I'm putting it in?
And you can know this because
it increases portability.
That if you can pick something up and
move it,
then you have reduced your coupling and
you've increased your cohesion.
And how you do this is you
refactor through promotion.
And so that when you find something
that's like I need to share this
across multiple pieces,
then you simply extract that out and
make that available to
the interested party.
So I found that developers sometimes that
they try to over engineer things and
they spin their wheels when in fact, they
can put it right where they need it as
long as they have a process in place
to refactor that through promotion.
Fortunately for us, this doesn't
work very well in JavaScript and
TypeScript, but
favor composition over inheritance.
And this is kind of a classic design
pattern idiom but inheritance is coupling.
And then one thing that I really,
really, really want to point out and
this is in regards to Redux in general Rx,
or any library that forces you to have
a well structured codebase, is do not
confuse convention for repetition.
Is that when you're doing this
something the same way over and
over that is convention.
Repetition is where you're doing
the same exact thing over and over.
So there's there should be doing the same
exact thing and doing things the same way.
And I have never said that before,
so that's a bonus.
And then well structured code would just
naturally have a larger surface area.
And we're gonna see this
when we get into Nx.
So, team rules for managing complexity.
This is for senior engineers, managers
is be mindful of the limitations of your
entire team and optimize around that.
Is that everybody is different,
everybody has a different skill set and
it's important to calibrate your
actions to your entire team.
I would say this is really,
really important favorite best practices
over introducing in idioms,
however clever they may be.
Consistency is better than righteousness.
And I can't tell you how
many times I've seen like,
I wanna fight you to the death over
the semi-colon, or tabs for spaces.
And ultimately, I find that my
convictions tend to modulate
to the standards set forth by
the team that I'm working with.
And to that end, follow the style
guide until it doesn't make sense for
your situation.
In our case, as angular developers,
we have a very,
very good angular style guide written by
the angular core team that we can follow.
I don't agree with everything,
but I agree with most of it and
it's a really good starting point.
So tactical rules for managing complexity.
Eliminate hidden state in functions.
And so if you have a function that is
dependent on state within that function,
then this is, in my opinion,
the bastion of evil.
Because you can call that
method 100 times with
the same parameters get something
different every single time.
So we'll talk about this when we get into
testing, but hidden state is the devil.
Nested logic.
Is also really,
really hard to reason about.
It also increases coupling and
it's very, very hard to test.
So do not break the single
responsibility principle.
This is where you're doing
more than one thing.
If you put it inside of nested logic,
then you're doing it more than one
thing in a really, really tough way.
But this is the best part of this.
I call this the axis of evil.
You can fix this very, very simply.
So the three worst things
that I see in programming,
you can fix by extracting to a method.
So if you have nested logic or
you're breaking the single responsibility
principle, what do you do?
You extract it to a method.
And secondly is if you have hidden state,
then you just move that into a parameter.
And so the three worst things are quite
possibly the simplest things to fix in
your code.
And if you need to clarify your code with
comments, then it's probably too complex.
And it is impossible to write
good tests for bad code.
And so a lot of times when I
get called into an engagement,
that everything is on fire
they need us to write test.
The problem is that all the things that
I've said up to this point are very basic
general principles that
have been violated.
And so now, we have this compromise code
base which then makes it in my opinion,
impossible to write good test for
bad code.